All right. So, we've taken this show
many places, but this is our first time
in Dallas at the Star. This is the
brainchild of the Jones family, and
we're talking to the man himself, Jerry
Jones. Good
>> to see you.
>> Jerry's my northstar as an owner. And
what he's done with this franchise,
taking it where he bought it from to
where it is today. Pretty incredible.
>> No one's done it better. Literally, no
one has built a more valuable sports
franchise on the planet. $13 billion is
the estimated value of the Dallas
Cowboys. Lots of lessons that we're
going to learn from Jerry Jones. I can't
wait. Let's do it.
>> Jerry Jones, thank you so much for
having us here in Texas.
>> Well, first of all, I'm proud you are
here. We're overlooking the field and uh
I'm kind of proud of what's around the
field as well with our star. So, uh uh
thanks for coming to the Star. Great to
be with both of you. And um Alex, so
proud to see my neighbor, my old
neighbor back here in Dallas. That's
right. So, Alex, I'm gonna let you kick
it off.
>> Yeah. So, you know, Jace, when I um
first decided that I wanted to own a
team, this is something I've been
dreaming about for forever and ever
since I was a teenager, but of course, I
come from very humble beginnings, but I
said, "There's one owner I must talk to,
and that's Mr. Jerry Jones." And I made
a call to Charlotte. This was around co
time. We were taking a run at the Mets.
>> Jerry's daughter, Charlotte Jones.
Charlotte Jones. I said, "Boy, but I
tell you, maybe in a couple weeks she'll
get Mr. Jones on cuz he's very busy."
And Charlotte hits me up right back. He
Jerry would love to talk to you. How's
Wednesday at 2:00? I said, "Done." And I
thought it was going to be 15 minutes.
And boy, I tell you what, 90 minutes
later, I have like pages and pages of
notes. And he gave me you gave me the
most incredible advice that I'll never
forget. And for that, I'm very grateful.
So that that call really meant a lot to
me. and a lot of what you told me along
with what I learned from George Steiners
and others that I respect and admire. I
think about that as an owner today of
the Minnesota Timber and the Minnesota
Links. So, thank you for that.
>> Well, congratulations and um you know uh
the minute that you told me you were
going to get involved at the ownership
level, it just made all the sense in the
world. Uh the fact that you had always
wanted to be in ownership says it all as
well because in my mind there is a
connection. It's a passion. It uh you
can call it competitiveness.
Uh but it's accomplishing things that
are hard to do. But you know, A-Rod, you
mentioned George
>> Steinbrer
>> and my early days with the Cowboys, I'd
get a nice note and I always look
forward to it and it would be from him
>> and he would give me I call them my
sweet nothings. I put them in a file
that I had that for. But it were daily
encouragements
>> because there was a lot of criticism
because of of the way that we bought the
Cowboys, changed the coaches out and
frankly did a lot of changes. Well, of
all the people in the world to be
getting those nice encouraging notes
that boy stick in there of keep it
going. I've got a legacy there. And we,
George Stein Bruner, the family and my
family set up a company called Legends.
>> And that was, of course, many years
later. And I got to meet with him
several times as we were talking about
Legends. And Legends serves many, many
sports and it serves facilities and the
process of really fan engagement. I'll
never forget though,
>> yeah. Yeah,
>> George Stein Bruner told the group when
we met, he said, "Uh, I don't need
anything written down. You You don't
spend any money or time on that contract
over there. He and I'll shake hands and
we'll have all we need to make this
business work."
>> So, Jerry, you know, you mentioned you
getting into ownership and and a lot
that led to that. You know, when Alex
calls you and says he's going to, you
know, buy into the NBA and the WNBA, no
one would doubt that that was a good
deal. When you bought the Dallas
Cowboys, people thought you were insane.
That people thought it was a bad
business and that you were overpaying.
What gave you the certitude that this
was a good deal?
>> Well, it it truly was passion.
And um just as passion can help you in
many aspects of life,
I really didn't see those obvious
obstacles.
>> I just didn't see them. Now you say,
"Well, can't you see losing a million
dollars a month? Are you blind? What
what how much were you drinking when you
bought the when you bought the Cowboys?"
Well, the point is I looked for ways,
and this is common. I looked for ways
that were maybe a little ambitious, but
I looked for ways to solve every one of
those problems. And while there may have
been long odds, uh there may have been a
little imagination in those ways. I took
those problems and I thought I had a
solution as to how to address them.
That's what you will do when you want to
do it real bad. And yes, the Cowboys, it
was daunting. But the point is that it
was always there. The interest in
becoming involved and becoming involved
in a way that let's say unlike A-Rod,
becoming in a way that didn't swing the
bat or didn't make the block, which I
certainly appreciated as a great fan,
but becoming involved in a way that
would uh make it better. Mhm.
>> I found no sports franchise anywhere in
the world that was making any money. You
see, sports had been a great great
portrayer of what sports is about. It's
called publicity.
>> Well, the difference in publicity in my
point of view than marketing is that
publicity has great audiences. It has
great uh if you will interest and can
create interest. Marketing is when you
take that publicity and you bring it
home and set up a plan to monetize some
of it and go out and get that and have
enough coming back in to go again.
That's called a business model.
>> Yeah. Well, sports had not only the
great passion and the natural instincts
of competing and everybody and the
appreciation of people that do, but
sports had this massive massive
publicity and massive of understanding,
but yet it had no business model to make
it call marketing where you could bring
back a little and go again.
>> Right? that was totally necessary for me
because I couldn't go again. Now, what
happened with me was candidly is that
the amount of money I had wasn't what
was needed.
>> But because the NFL and the Cowboys were
were really uh slow.
>> We were really down and out financially,
frankly.
>> Because of that, then the NFL knew they
had a problem. The bankers didn't worry
about me because they didn't loan
anything on the Cowboys. the bankers
loaned it on a receivable that I had.
And so the approval of me getting
through the door and still not having
any money left to go buy the general
partners that I had agreed under
contract to go buy out, but I didn't
have the money to go do that.
>> So Jay, along those lines, so go back to
1989. You're losing a million dollars
per month. Now, I heard you also say
that you may have wanted to buy a
business that was cash flowing to offset
some of those losses. as you think about
filling those holes, was that stressful?
And what was your strategy? Walk us
through that.
>> On a personal basis, I had such pride
and such an experience in sport uh when
I was in college and my senior year at
Arkansas, we won the national
championship.
>> Well, I had been schooled in selling uh
insurance. I could know that leg off the
chair selling, but what I hadn't done
was been really schooled in financial.
And so I thought because I could tell a
good story and could borrow all that
money that that was the way to go. And
so my first year or two out of college,
I borrowed more money than you could
even count. And my first year out of
school, I think my commissions were
$30,000.
My interest was $150,000 to give you an
idea how over my skis I had gotten. It
took me years. It took my uh Jean, my
wife, getting her purse taken out of her
hands and cards, credit cards cut in
two. It took the bill players coming.
So, I had really uh gotten a lesson in
how not to do it as far as buying
something. Well, I managed to come
through that and it was the greatest
education that I'd ever had. Well, then
I was very fortunate and got some real
finances with the oil and gas business
>> after all that buttkicking that I got
for getting out over my skis.
>> After all of that, to show you how
passionate or crazy I was, after going
through that of thinking that uh the old
financial death had been at Ray, I
turned around and bought the Dallas
Cowboys. That shows you how much passion
was involved. But I remember when we
talked, Alex, I said, listen, I said
nothing nothing can stand in the way of
passion.
>> So I think Alex would probably validate
this that when he goes to buy a team,
part of the advice that he gets is sit,
don't make any big moves, no sudden
moves, don't get rid of a bunch of
people right away. you didn't follow
that advice that basically the minute
you come in, you get rid of this
legendary coach. You fired everybody
from the guy in announcing the public
announcements to the head of publicity
and the general manager. Why? What did
you see that was so wrong with them that
you felt like you immediately had to
act? You have to assume when you buy
something
that who you buy it from knows what it's
worth like it is. Give them credit or
certainly their creditors might know.
They know what the business is. So a big
mistake is not to automatically build in
know that you've got to change the
scenery if you pay what you're going to
pay. assume they're getting top dollar
and have taken it when they got your
money.
>> So, you have to really go in thinking
change
>> when it was as dramatically out of
celter as the cowboys were. I had to
have radical change and I had to do it
yesterday. So, there was an urgency. You
didn't have time to have a good time, so
to speak. That plus again the fact that
I can't emphasize enough. I felt like
Hershel Walker running through the line.
It was just bouncing off of me. There
were all kinds of hurdles that were
popping. And of course, where was the
bad day? Well, I couldn't have a bad day
because I was getting to do something
that I'd wanted to do all my life. And
that ruled the day. So, one of the other
most seinal deals that that you make is
you mentioned Hershel Walker. Got rid of
him. You traded him. Yeah. Um, it turns
out to be arguably one of the most
brilliant trades in in the history of
football. Did not seem that way at the
time. Talk us through that decision. If
you look at u uh making change
and certainly u hersel walker was a
change the best player we had and it was
well known
uh in this particular case you were kind
of knew on the block so you
automatically didn't know what you were
doing
>> always when it's an accomplished name of
whether it's sport or otherwise always
when you get a divorce here, it's going
to look bad for the one that made the
decision. Always. There's no question.
If you can't handle that, then don't
make the trade. Or if you can't
anticipate that, don't make the trade.
That's alive and well. But what it
caused you to do is not just the
tangible
uh consideration you got, which at that
time were draft picks.
uh you didn't have a cap at that time,
>> but you had those draft picks and that
was the tangible. What those trades did,
what those picks did
>> was allow us to use them not only for
using them in the draft, but we use them
to trade trade. And we did it with I'm
not going to say randomness, but we did
it with reckless abandon if you want to.
It caused you to be more of a player
because it was like going to Las Vegas
with money in your pocket. And I don't
think there's any question that I
willing to take risk in those early days
after having acquired the Cowboys uh
that we built players, built our roster.
I think the the ability to cut and shoot
was a big deal.
>> I've heard you talk about ambiguity. I
think about it from the lens of sports,
Jerry. There's some guys that I've
played with that are free agents and
they don't know when that next check's
coming from or where it's coming from.
And you create a 300 hitter becomes a
215 hitter. A guy that hits 30 home runs
hits 18 home runs because of the nerves.
The same is true in business. But you
have this ability to not knowing what's
going to happen next to perform at a
high level. Do you believe that's true?
And and where does that come from if it
is true? Well, I know it's true uh in my
situation, but I think it's very true.
Uh and some of the greatest people that
uh have ever been involved in the
professions or business, they don't
function as well if they don't know
what's going to happen at the end of the
week, especially financially. They need
to know that so that they can get on
with the uh their business of being as
excellent as they are. On the other
hand, there are some people that the
ambiguity that's out there of not
knowing what your check is, they're
better than if they knew what the check
was going to be.
>> They're more clever. They're more
cunning. They're more They've just got
more uh skill and are willing to exert
it. I call that tolerance for ambiguity.
Tolerance for ambiguity. And the
classic, at least known story was the
famous riverboat gambler, charming
mustache sitting there. The next card up
is going to get him thrown off the boat
or he's going to own the boat. Now,
that's when he's the best that he is in
his life. And of course, he's gotten
thrown off that boat before and he's won
the boat a few times. The difference is
though, I'll bet you not a one of those
charming son of a guns didn't know how
to swim.
>> Now you can play that hand, but you
better know how to swim because you're
going to get thrown off the boat a
little bit.
>> You've gotten thrown off the boat
>> a little bit.
>> I have to.
>> I was going to say you. You guys have
been thrown off some boats together. Um,
so I I do want to, you know, move ahead
a little bit chronologically because one
of the ways that you step out is with
your deal making. You know, you're you
come in, you're part of this club, a
club that a lot of people, especially
now, want to be a part of, and NFL has
its way of doing business and you at
some point decide that you might be able
to do this a little bit better. And I'm
thinking specifically the Nike deal.
Yeah. You know, this is a Nike athlete
right here. Everybody remembers you and
Phil Knight walking out on that field.
How does that deal come about? How do
you decide to do that knowing that the
NFL, they've got Reebok, they're good.
You decide you can do something better.
>> I had known a great coach named Eddie
Sutton, and he had told me about Phil
Knight as a young man bringing his
things to uh where he was coaching in
college and selling it out of the trunk.
that Phil Knight had had that path to
where he was. But the thing that was
obvious to me
>> was that he took
a shoe or he took performance or
perspective performance mentally in a
shoe and he did such a good job of
telling the story with it that he made
me think if I could put the shoe on I
could run faster.
>> Right. And that so hit home with me
relative to what sports is about but
really can be accentuated. Uh it truly
is the story when you see uh a rare
player, a rare athlete.
There's so much more that's going on
there with that rare athlete
>> and just the story of what's making him
rare comparing him to uh the other
players or other competition. I call it
one and one is three.
>> Mhm.
>> And I apply that to everything whether
it's a business decision. One in one is
three in sports. Not two but three. And
it's because that three is imagination.
That three is uh putting yourself in in
a way having yourself hit the home run
or having yourself there when you're uh
watching or thinking about it. That area
right there is an intangible
because it is an intangible. That's
where the biggest margins are in
business.
>> Not down here where everybody's doing it
and the engineers are working on it.
They've got it whittleled down to right
there. This area right here, that
imagineering, that imagination part
that's makes one and one three is where
the margins are and frankly where the
glory is. I spent my 25 year career with
Nike and Phil Knight was just the most
amazing partner and it delighted me when
you made that move. But my question is,
when you come up with that idea at home,
you're thinking in the couch or
wherever, from the time you call Phil
Knight, how long did it take? And how do
those conversations go? Are you pitching
your idea of why this is a great
marriage? How does that go? If you can
give us a little color.
>> I visited with him uh my wife Jane and
son Jerry u went to their headquarters.
>> I'll never forget I was visiting with a
couple of his folks about uh what this
might look like. and he came in and uh
we had gotten pretty far along and he
looked over at me, I'll never forget it.
And he said, "I have never paid so much
for nothing
in my life." But he said, he said, "This
thing, there's something about it I
like." When we initially made our deal,
he couldn't use Cowboys or he couldn't
use the Star.
>> Wow.
>> We just did the deal with the stadium.
>> Wow. Now, as Charlotte said, uh, she
niked the stadium. We made that stadium
look like it was Nike headquarters out
there, but we didn't do it with the
team. We basically, uh, brought the team
out in, uh, no colors and, uh, no
sponsor at all.
>> But, um, when we got to New York, we
were playing the Giants, and that's when
we made, uh, this announcement. And at
that time when we walked out on the
field, I had a suit on, but I had the
Nike tennis shoes on and Phil walked out
with me and I had the Nike hat on. And
um uh we had met earlier with Al
Michaels and we had met with Dan
Deerdorf and we had met in the dressing
room and I explained to them what this
was about and where the edge was
regarding the NFL and where it was uh
regarding Nike and the Cowboys that made
it a contentious thing.
>> I'll never forget Al Michael said now we
may have if we have a close game here we
might not get much to this in the second
half. Well, we had quite a lead, the
Cowboys did, going into halftime. So,
they spent that entire half talking
about this relationship and the NFL and
what might might occur. That next
morning, Phil called me and he said, "I
have never had such a bang for my buck
in your life when he called." And I'll
tell you, from that time on, uh, I could
walk down the streets in New York. I
could be in Chicago, uh, and you'd have
drivers and cars and what have you, just
point to Nike and say, "Go get them."
So, the controversy,
>> the controversy, if you will, look out.
The controversy created also a huge uh
interest when otherwise it might just
been some commercial issue but created a
huge interest and of course uh uh the
potential result uh relative to my
relationship with the NFL and that type
thing that got a little touchy there for
a little while. Uh but in general I
can't say enough about uh Phil and his
buying into the idea of taking a team.
Now he obviously to this day uh wants to
be a part of Nike and the NFL and it's
as it should be. But uh when it's uh the
thing to do you can do both team league.
That's right.
>> Take everything you say and and I
believe it. And yet Paul Tagleu, the
commissioner at the time, was like,
"What's Jones doing down? We we've got
this deal. What what makes him think
that he can he can go and do this?" Did
you have that in your mind? Well, I had
and have all the respect in the world
for Paul Tagoo, but I was operating on
different gasoline. I had the ultimate.
They had to come through me. It was my
fanny that was going to get put out on
the street. Mhm.
>> If the Cowboys didn't make more sense
financially
and if something happened to the
Cowboys, frankly, uh it had a good
chance of happening to others in the
NFL, other teams in the NFL.
>> And so I didn't see a solution to get in
line, get in sync,
>> get right in with the other at that time
29 teams, 30 teams. Uh, I didn't see
that answer either because I hadn't
found that answer to do that. And so
candidly, it wasn't comfortable. I'm not
going to say it's comfortable, but it
was inspirational to think that I was
doing something about the problem.
>> And the way that I was doing something
about it, maybe for everybody, maybe
not. First, I was interested in what it
did for the Cowboys. And I knew good and
well some of the things I was suggesting
that I was getting criticized for were
in the best interest of the Cowboys. And
I really thought they were in the best
interest of the NFL. I think the clubs
and the great markets they're in around
this country. They have all of the
ability in the world to promote their
brands and to be imaginative in terms of
of involving fans and products or
services. And I think they have the
ability to get involved more than you do
at one central place. But on the other
hand, I thought the NFL as a whole had a
fabulous uh inventory of things to
engage companies in services and they do
very much. It's called Super Bowl. It's
called the game itself. And so picture,
if you will, a circle that's got all of
the clubs in it and then you have the
NFL. Well, I could see each club in
their areas of marketing and making
their deal with Nike. And then I could
see the NFL having a deal if Nike, yes,
but maybe with an a competing competing
entity. That fundamentally was what it
was all about,
>> right? Because I mean, essentially what
happens, you know, for those who aren't
as familiar with it is they sue you, you
counter sue. I mean, contentious. It it
goes it it gets real contentious. It
gets latgious. Did you know that that
was how this was ultimately going to get
settled? You knew there would be a
fight.
>> Well, first of all, uh uh frankly, u and
I had no other way to think about it. Uh
the amount the league sued me for
immediately they owned the Cowboys,
>> right?
>> Uh and 300 million, right?
>> $300 million at the time. And I told you
that I'd spent it all and didn't have
the ultimate figure was to buy the
Cowboys. And so it was dramatic for me
and traumatic for me, but um caused me
to uh uh certainly
grow, if you will, buck up.
>> Mhm.
>> Uh
sleep less uh but sharpen up. Mhm.
>> And uh it was an experience that I think
uh we used as a platform uh again for in
years as years have gone by and really
have benefited from that more ways than
just uh a shot of uh juice for the
sponsorship area. I didn't know that
buying the Cowboys, by the way. I didn't
see that at all.
I did see and say, "Look, I'm going to
have to find something or I'm going to
have a lost leader of millions of
dollars for the rest of my life. So, I'm
going to need to go get something to
associate the Cowboys with that can help
me tow the bill, tow the freight for
owning the Cowboys." Jerry, we were
sitting at a game at a Cowboy game maybe
3, four years ago and you said to me,
"Alex, I'm around 79, maybe 80, and I
work harder today than I was when I was
39 or 49. Where do you get that work
ethic from?" Because it's remarkable.
You haven't slowed down one bit.
>> Well, first of all, we were talking
earlier and when you bought the team,
you were 50. If you could possibly
from 50 to my age today, if you could
have 10% of the fun that I've had over
the last 30 years,
>> I'll take five.
>> 10. Okay, take five of it. I promise
you, there's no way to measure what life
has been since touching sport and
touching the Dallas Cowboys. But it's
given me such an inspirational base that
has caused me to do things and and
really things that aren't necessarily
directly associated at all with the
Cowboys.
>> And the moral of the story, the lesson
is if you got a dream or if you got
something that you're passionate about,
>> boy, give your passion a whole lot of
value
>> in terms of putting your assets together
to go do it. And so Jerry to that point
you know for those of us who who've
watched you more closely over the past
call it 10 15 20 years certainly the
last five or 10 we see someone who is
very comfortable with risk very
comfortable with controversy. What
becomes clear in watching your whole
history is this is a feature not a bug.
This this is this is who you are. What
gives you such comfort with risk because
you seek it out. You you run toward it.
It feels like
>> yeah well I I think that the experience
uh uh if you've taken risk then
certainly you have failed. I think as
much as anything it's the ability to
deal with the failure and ask the
question okay when you get up a month
from now and it's gone totally the other
way for you look around at your
relationships look around at what you're
about in life now. Can you live with how
that's going to feel when it didn't
work? It's that test. It's that next day
test, that next week test. Can you go?
If you can do that, then you go back
over there and say, "Okay, now what do I
have to do?" And financially, what the
work you have to do to uh uh put it
together? The one thing I've always been
able to do is borrow more money than I
should have.
And I'm real good at it. and it crippled
me when I was much younger just getting
out of college. So, I've really never
seen something that I didn't think that
I could figure out a way to financially
make it make it happen u ever. Now, what
I also though have in these cobwebs back
there and if you ever cut me open,
that's what you've got in there is all
of those times when I couldn't pay. M
>> when I first got involved with the
Cowboys, it was pretty frankly very
negative in this area and I had a
reporter come up and we won one football
game our first year and the reporter
asked me said, "These have got to be the
lowest days of your life."
>> I said, "About 15 years before I bought
the Cowboys, I came in Love Field at
that time the airport here in Dallas and
I went up to a little stand. It was a
rent a car stand. Small by today's
standards.
Put my card out there and said, "I need
to rent a car for my work down here."
They looked down a list, took my card
right in front of me, and just cut it in
two. They said, "Young man, you need to
know how to learn how to pay your bills.
You don't have any credit." That's a
hard day in Dallas, Texas, not just
winning one football game all year long.
>> Those are the hard days right there. And
so again, not to overemphasize the
point, the thing we're talking about,
the interest in extending
uh the interest in sport and certainly
the years I've been involved when it
didn't quite work financially. Now,
we're doing some good lately about how
to make it work financially
>> and that we're seeing that is more there
than we might have thought were there. I
didn't necessarily see that. I really
didn't. I found it out pretty quick that
it was uh it was there. So looking back
seems like well you know that ought to
have worked that should have if you're
sitting out here on now social media and
all of the eyeballs there you ought to
be able to figure out a way to attach
that affinity to a product or a service.
You should be able to do that. Well we
hadn't done that and uh to me that's
there today and it's there more so than
it's ever been. Well, and one of the
things that to your exact point, Jerry,
around the the value of sports and the
value of teams that has become very
apparent, private equity coming into
sports and specifically the National
Football League has been a a seinal
moment uh for the league. What do you
make of private equity so far in the
league?
>> I think that um uh first of all, let me
clear this up. I'm a Main Street guy,
not a Wall Street guy. I was raised uh
with a family that was the the the heart
of the customer. The customer is right.
That approach to things. The thing that
is so important
is to take your critical associations
and that can be products, service,
companies. Uh it can possibly be those
very investors.
>> Mhm. Uh, I'm going to call them minority
investors, although I don't accept a
minority investor. I don't want to say
that about an investor. Anybody that
wants to put hundreds of thousands or a
million dollars in the team, boy, I want
them to be just as uh entitled, frankly,
as I feel about it to get that done.
>> And I want to treat them that way. And I
want them to think that when they walk
out here, if they come out here, I want
them to think they're a part of this
team because they are.
>> They're critical. Name me any business
that when they have great capital
sources
don't really uh have a lot of energy and
a lot of success. Mhm.
>> And so sports today is getting real
capital sources
uh as other investments would. And that
capital resources, a part of that is not
some dividend check
or not some plaque on the wall. A part
of that is being involved and getting to
be a part of the team. I think that's
critical. Uh, I've had people involved
in our team, the Cowboys, not a direct
ownership, but as a valued sponsor.
>> Mhm.
>> And, uh, let's say a beer sponsor. Well,
that's Jerry Jones
out at the floor of that warehouse at
6:00 in the morning.
>> And you'd think I was talking to the uh
uh football team at halftime.
>> Instead, I'm talking to the drivers. And
I'm talking to the drivers about how
when they go in a 7-Eleven, talk to the
manager about product placement and
putting it to where more people will buy
the beer. I'm explaining that to them.
So consequently, I'm as interested in
the Cowboys helping them be what they
want to be as they are in being
interested in the Cowboys. Mhm.
>> So that's not exactly the relationship
that somebody might think if they were
sitting there as an investment in a fund
or something like that. There's more to
being an owner in sports, right?
>> And it can be and it can be very
rewarding.
>> You told me that in that phone call and
you said, "Alex, it has to be you. You
got to be the chief marketing officer,
the chief revenue officer. It's got to
be you. Not anyone you hire. They want
to see you and you're going to open
doors for that team. And it's got to be
you. And and you said it like three
times. You said, "Don't forget that."
>> So Jerry, would you you know, you have
held on to this as your family business
for all. I I have to think you've got
people knocking on your door, especially
with these newly approved private equity
firms. They'd love to buy a steak in the
Cowboys. Would you consider that?
>> Well, I know that I asked one person,
uh, his name was Don Tyson of Tyson's
Chicken.
>> He's a great friend of mine. He sat with
me at two Super Bowls. But when I bought
the Cowboys and I lived in Arkansas, I
asked Don if he'd like to join me in
buying the Cowboys.
>> And Don said, "I'm gonna buy Holly Farms
here in a few months." And so, and I'm
not quite into the sport thing like you
are.
>> So, he said, "I'm not going to do it,
but he said, Jerry, is it possible for
you to do it by yourself?" And I said,
"Well, uh, yeah, but I'm talking to you
because it'd be a lot more comfortable,
a lot easier to have with you as a
partner." He said, "If you can do this
without a partner,
okay, you should do it because partners
are expensive." That would be from the
eyes of, let's say, the majority owner,
>> right?
>> Well, of course they're expensive.
They're your partners. They own the team
like you on it and they should be
involved and be included and be made to
uh uh not not some kind of fictitious
thing but be made to be involved and uh
candidly uh I feel that way about our
key sponsors as well. To me that's
wearing it. Now you and I both know uh
all owners don't get involved like
George Stein Bruner did. Mhm.
>> All of them don't get involved like I
get involved. But candidly, uh, if you
want this thing to be
what it can be for you, A-Rod,
>> that is the way to engage. And what
you've ended up with is a almost a a
family of your own involved with the
Cowboys. In my particular case, I've
gotten to spend this journey directly
with my family. Mhm.
>> And as it's turned out, they have become
not the ones we started the journey
with. And they have we have evolved.
We've all evolved together. And I get
credit for most of the credit I get are
their ideas and their execution. But my
whole point is it is the journey.
>> Mhm.
>> And it is the being involved. And the
good news is is that we can step up
there and win a championship. Mhm.
>> have all of this, all of this reminds me
of the Godfather. Now, I'm going to
provide the protection, the money, and
uh everything else. Tell me why I
deserve this good deal.
>> And so, when you talk about your family,
Jerry, what I hear you saying, and I
want you to keep us honest here, is that
this will be the family business. You're
not looking for partners at this point.
Is that a fair statement?
>> Yeah. And I think the best way to make
my point is that um I alluded to it
earlier. I didn't make an investment. I
did not make an investment. I invested
in a job. And that's why from the very
get-go, I said I was going to be
involved in every way.
>> My children buying through me back in
those years were not a part of an
investment. We bought the team, but what
we got were jobs and we got a career.
And guess what? We got a life. And uh I
can't tell you what uh uh the most
rewarding thing of course has been
really working with them and uh having
them involved as well. So under those
circumstances because uh they've spent a
lifetime working with the Cowboys. Uh I
don't see that changing uh and of course
there's no succession plan here because
uh they've been doing it anyway. Mhm.
And so what I would imagine, just to put
a fine point on it, people must knock on
your door wanting to invest in the
Cowboys and you just say no thank you.
>> Well, I've had wonderful opportunities,
frankly, yes, uh to have partners uh
almost almost from the time I bought the
club. As a matter of fact, the next
morning I got up after we had had our
announcement that we were going to buy
the team and make the changes.
Uh, I get a call from Bum Brightite who
had sold me the team. And he said, "I
just got a call from probably the most
qualified people you could ever imagine
and said, uh, they were there they've
seen where I was had a handshake or
whatever we've got." And they said to
tell you that you can uh whatever's on
the piece of paper we sign, which wasn't
much, they'll take it, give you 10
million to go home to Arkansas that
morning. I said, Mr. Bry, I said, uh,
tell them that's thanks for their offer,
but uh, no, I'm on this thing now and
we're going with it. But the bottom line
is that the time spent, the commitment,
the being involved.
>> Uh it it really hadn't been work,
>> right?
>> Uh been some worry now, been some
serious serious whatifs. Uh principally
early financial,
very early financial. I could really
have envisioned a disaster.
>> Mhm. And uh frankly, I had gotten to a
point to where I shouldn't have risked
that regarding my family, especially
after what I'd been through and knew
better. Uh but I did it because I wanted
to be involved. But I was very aware.
It's like being operated on a little bit
while you're still awake. I was very
aware the whole time of how uh an
embarrassing thing it would be to have
to uh uh leave Dallas and leave the
Cowboys here. the whatever's left of it.
>> Right.
>> And so your succession plan is
essentially you said there's no
succession plan, but the succession plan
is your kids.
>> Yes. And it's in place and uh uh the
truth is they could operate uh today if
we decided we want to go someplace.
>> So Jerry, I have two daughters and their
northstar is Jeannie Bus, great the
great Dr. Bus's daughter and Charlotte
and you know they want to be involved
with sports one day. So they they watch,
they admire, just like I have studied
you over the years. They're studying
Charlotte and Genie Bus.
>> Yeah.
>> So I hope to have that one day.
>> I can't tell you how much I think that
women are such a part of uh of the
future of sport. We know it in the NFL.
We're so proud of our percentage of
women that are involved uh in sport.
Mhm.
>> We're going to get to our our lightning
round in a second, but but there's one
thing that just sort of strikes me, you
know, sitting here with with both of you
who are larger than life characters, if
I can say this, about my partner. Um,
and characters who have had to deal with
a lot of stuff coming at you over the
course of your careers from when you
were a player to now from all all
through your ownership. What's your
advice for blocking out the noise? You
get a lot of criticism every day in the
paper, every day on social media.
Stephen A. Smith, whoever it is fussing
at you or fuss fussing about you. What's
your secret?
>> Well, first of all, uh, sports gives you
such a a space entering it, you know,
that you're going to have criticism. You
strike out and you strike out at
critical times sometimes.
And the very thing that we encourage is
fans interest in that and fans sitting
there with opinions and their opinions
about whether or not we did it the way
they would have done it or what their
expectation was. That's what it's based
on. And it's so authentic and so you
live in that. And uh certainly I I don't
guess I should be proud of it, but I
don't I don't know of many that have had
more criticism than I've had over the
last uh uh 354 years to be involved. But
I've never ever resented that in any
way. Uh as a matter of fact, uh I I want
to address it and uh want to be a part
of it. Sometimes I think that uh there
may be something wrong here. I seem to
do better when they're criticizing me
than than when I'm not. But sports
allows you to do that. Now, it really
does allow you to show them. And it
allows you to uh have a certain place
within yourself. You're part of a team
always, but within yourself, it allows
you to uh imagine uh coming back and
showing them. We just made a trade on
Micah Parsons.
>> Really? I missed that. No, I'm just
kidding. Well, we just made a trade with
Michael Parsons. Well, of course, I want
to show that we can be successful with
the result of what that brings to the
Dallas Cowboys. That's going to bat.
>> Mhm.
>> Can you imagine? Uh uh I'm still sitting
here going to bat. Uh I remember last
year after or we had a a loss that
really uh had me down.
>> And so I know that you're supposed to
make that list. It's the old Ben
Franklin list where on the left side you
list all of the things that you've got
that are great and on the right side you
list all of the negatives that are going
on which would certainly be the order of
the day in that circumstances. Well, I
want you to know that sometimes I have
to list my things that I do right. I
have to list it about five times in five
different ways to make my list longer.
But I always come out of there with a
positive list. Glad to be playing ball
today.
>> That's right. All right. We're going to
do our rapid fire. So, it's 10
questions. We'll bounce it back and
forth and first thing that comes to your
mind. What's one word to describe your
deal making style?
>> Optimistic.
>> What's more important to you? Your gut
or data?
>> Gut. Who's your dream deal making
partner?
>> Oh, I would uh I would put Georgetown
Bruner right there. Not because it's
convenient.
>> What's your the best piece of advice you
received on deal making or running a
business?
>> Uh it's not right or wrong.
It's
handle and cut your wrong short and let
your rights run long.
>> Mhm. What's the worst advice you've been
given?
>> I'd say it's um from bankers either on
one side anxious to loan the money uh or
on another side uh being a little
reluctant to buy into my idea.
>> What's a deal you wish you had done? You
know, I thought the uh Minnesota Vikings
uh when Red Mcomes bought them uh I
thought that was the equivalent of uh uh
not far back, but that was like buying a
$50,000 house on a $500,000 block full
of houses. I thought if there's any way
to involve that with a family or a
friend and of course uh they've ended up
with some great ownership. But uh that
was for me at that time the best deal
I'd seen on the street so to speak in
sport.
>> What's more stressful, the fourth
quarter of a playoff game or the final
round of a negotiation?
>> Oh, I think that playoff game is what
it's all about. And I know a lot of
people say Jerry's interested in the uh
interested in the values and he's
interested in the financial. Uh it was
always about uh getting a chance to come
in here and do those things that let you
get to maybe have a chance for a world
championship and that's primary.
>> What's your hype song before you go into
a big meeting or a big negotiation?
Uh, I want to be sweet here.
>> Hard times.
>> There you go.
>> You can only watch one sport other than
football for the rest of your life. What
is it?
>> Oh, baseball's my favorite.
>> There you go.
>> And that's not because he's sitting
there at all.
>> That's cuz
>> All right. So, we usually ask, what's
one team you want to win a Super Bowl or
a championship? So, I'm going to avoid
that. My question is, what's the first
thing you're going to do when you win
your next championship? And I'm gonna
add this and can I come along?
I'm going to make a victory tour.
And this day and time with social media
and everything, uh, it'll be quite a
victory tour. And let me say this, every
time I make a decision with the Cowboys,
a little image pops up about what you're
going to do when you're holding the
trophy. That's
>> right. There you go. And you will. We
look forward to seeing you holding that
uh someday soon.
[Music]